To me, every hour of the light and dark is a miracle,
Every inch of space is a miracle,
Every square yard of the surface of the earth is spread with the same,
Every cubic foot of the interior swarms with the same;
Every spear of grass--the frames, limbs, organs, of men and women, and all
        that concerns them,
All these to me are unspeakably perfect miracles.

To me the sea is a continual miracle;
The fishes that swim--the rocks--the motion of the waves--the ships, with
        men in them,
What stranger miracles are there?




_VISAGES._


Of the visages of things--And of piercing through to the accepted hells
        beneath.
Of ugliness--To me there is just as much in it as there is in
        beauty--And now the ugliness of human beings is acceptable to me.
Of detected persons--To me, detected persons are not, in any respect, worse
        than undetected persons--and are not in any respect worse than I am
        myself.
Of criminals--To me, any judge, or any juror, is equally criminal--and any
        reputable person is also--and the President is also.



_THE DARK SIDE._


I sit and look out upon all the sorrows of the world, and upon all
        oppression and shame;
I hear secret convulsive sobs from young men, at anguish with themselves,
        remorseful after deeds done;
I see, in low life, the mother misused by her children, dying, neglected,
        gaunt, desperate;
I see the wife misused by her husband--I see the treacherous seducer of
        young women;
I mark the ranklings of jealousy and unrequited love, attempted to be hid--
        I see these sights on the earth;
I see the workings of battle, pestilence, tyranny--I see martyrs and
        prisoners;
I observe a famine at sea--I observe the sailors casting lots who shall be
        killed, to preserve the lives of the rest;
I observe the slights and degradations cast by arrogant persons upon
        labourers, the poor, and upon negroes, and the like;
All these--all the meanness and agony without end, I, sitting, look out
        upon;
See, hear, and am silent.




_MUSIC._


I heard you, solemn-sweet pipes of the organ, as last Sunday morn I passed
        the church;
Winds of autumn!--as I walked the woods at dusk, I heard your
        long-stretched sighs, up above, so mournful;
I heard the perfect Italian tenor, singing at the opera--I heard the
        soprano in the midst of the quartette singing.
--Heart of my love! you too I heard, murmuring low, through one of the
        wrists around my head;
Heard the pulse of you, when all was still, ringing little bells last night
        under my ear.



_WHEREFORE?_


O me! O life!--of the questions of these recurring;
Of the endless trains of the faithless--of cities filled with the foolish;
Of myself for ever reproaching myself, (for who more foolish than I, and
        who more faithless?)
Of eyes that vainly crave the light--of the objects mean--of the struggle
        ever renewed;
Of the poor results of all--of the plodding and sordid crowds I see around
        me;
Of the empty and useless years of the rest--with the rest me intertwined;
The question, O me! so sad, recurring--What good amid these, O me, O life?



_ANSWER_.


That you are here--that life exists, and identity;
That the powerful play goes on, and you will contribute a verse.



_QUESTIONABLE._


As I lay with my head in your lap, camerado,
The confession I made I resume--what I said to you and the open air I
        resume.
I know I am restless, and make others so;
I know my words are weapons, full of danger, full of death;
(Indeed I am myself the real soldier;
It is not he, there, with his bayonet, and not the red-striped
        artilleryman;)
For I confront peace, security, and all the settled laws, to unsettle them;
I am more resolute because all have denied me than I could ever have been
        had all accepted me;
I heed not, and have never heeded, either experience, cautions, majorities,
        nor ridicule;
And the threat of what is called hell is little or nothing to me;
And the lure of what is called heaven is little or nothing to me.
--Dear camerado! I confess I have urged you onward with me, and still urge
        you, without the least idea what is our destination,
Or whether we shall be victorious, or utterly quelled and defeated.



_SONG AT SUNSET._