Illustrious every one!
Illustrious what we name space--sphere of unnumbered spirits;
Illustrious the mystery of motion, in all beings, even the tiniest insect;
Illustrious the attribute of speech--the senses--the body;
Illustrious the passing light! Illustrious the pale reflection on the new
        moon in the western sky!
Illustrious whatever I see, or hear, or touch, to the last.

Good in all,
In the satisfaction and _aplomb_ of animals,
In the annual return of the seasons,
In the hilarity of youth,
In the strength and flush of manhood,
In the grandeur and exquisiteness of old age,
In the superb vistas of Death.

Wonderful to depart;
Wonderful to be here!
The heart, to jet the all-alike and innocent blood,
To breathe the air, how delicious!
To speak! to walk! to seize something by the hand!
To prepare for sleep, for bed--to look on my rose-coloured flesh,
To be conscious of my body, so happy, so large,
To be this incredible God I am,
To have gone forth among other Gods--those men and women I love.

Wonderful how I celebrate you and myself!
How my thoughts play subtly at the spectacles around!
How the clouds pass silently overhead!

How the earth darts on and on! and how the sun, moon, stars, dart on and
        on!
How the water sports and sings! (Surely it is alive!)
How the trees rise and stand up--with strong trunks--with branches and
        leaves!
Surely there is something more in each of the trees--some living soul.

O amazement of things! even the least particle!
O spirituality of things!
O strain musical, flowing through ages and continents--now reaching me and
        America!
I take your strong chords--I intersperse them, and cheerfully pass them
        forward.

I too carol the sun, ushered, or at noon, or, as now, setting,
I too throb to the brain and beauty of the earth, and of all the growths of
        the earth,
I too have felt the resistless call of myself.

As I sailed down the Mississippi,
As I wandered over the prairies,
As I have lived--As I have looked through my windows, my eyes,
As I went forth in the morning--As I beheld the light breaking in the east;
As I bathed on the beach of the Eastern Sea, and again on the beach of the
        Western Sea;
As I roamed the streets of inland Chicago-whatever streets I have roamed;
Wherever I have been, I have charged myself with contentment and triumph.

I sing the Equalities;
I sing the endless finales of things;
I say Nature continues--Glory continues;
I praise with electric voice:
For I do not see one imperfection in the universe;
And I do not see one cause or result lamentable at last in the universe.

O setting sun! though the time has come,
I still warble under you unmitigated adoration.



_LONGINGS FOR HOME._


O Magnet South! O glistening, perfumed South! my South!
O quick mettle, rich blood, impulse, and love! good and evil! O all dear to
        me!
O dear to me my birth-things--all moving things, and the trees where I was
        born,[1] the grains, plants, rivers;
Dear to me my own slow, sluggish rivers, where they flow distant over flats
        of silvery sands or through swamps;
Dear to me the Roanoke, the Savannah, the Altamahaw, the Pedee, the
        Tombigbee, the Santee, the Coosa, and the Sabine--
O pensive, far away wandering, I return with my soul to haunt their banks
        again.
Again in Florida I float on transparent lakes--I float on Okeechobee--I
        cross
the hummock land, or through pleasant openings or dense forests.
I see the parrots in the woods, I see the papaw-tree, and the blossoming
        titi.
Again, sailing in my coaster, on deck, I coast off Georgia, I coast up the
        Carolinas;
I see where the live-oak is growing--I see where the yellow-pine, the
        scented bay-tree, the lemon and orange, the cypress, the graceful
        palmetto.
I pass rude sea-headlands, and enter Pamlico Sound through an inlet, and
        dart my vision inland;
O the cotton plant! the growing fields of rice, sugar, hemp!
The cactus, guarded with thorns--the laurel-tree, with large white flowers;
The range afar--the richness and barrenness--the old woods charged with
        mistletoe and trailing moss,
The piney odour and the gloom--the awful natural stillness, Here in these
        dense swamps the freebooter carries his gun, and the fugitive slave
        has his concealed hut;
O the strange fascination of these half-known, half-impassable swamps,
        infested by reptiles, resounding with the bellow of the alligator,
        the sad noises of the night-owl and the wild-cat, and the whirr of
        the rattlesnake;
The mocking-bird, the American mimic, singing all the forenoon--singing
        through the moon-lit night,
The humming-bird, the wild-turkey, the raccoon, the opossum;
A Tennessee corn-field--the tall, graceful, long-leaved corn--slender,
        flapping, bright green, with tassels--with beautiful ears, each
        well-sheathed in its husk;
An Arkansas prairie--a sleeping lake, or still bayou.
O my heart! O tender and fierce pangs--I can stand them not--I will depart!
O to be a Virginian, where I grew up! O to be a Carolinian!
O longings irrepressible! O I will go back to old Tennessee, and never
        wander more!

[Footnote 1: These expressions cannot be understood in a literal
sense, for Whitman was born, not in the South, but in the State
of New York. The precise sense to be attached to them may be open
to some difference of opinion.]



_APPEARANCES._


Of the terrible doubt of appearances,
Of the uncertainty after all--that we may be deluded,
That maybe reliance and hope are but speculations after all,
That maybe identity beyond the grave is a beautiful fable only,
Maybe the things I perceive--the animals, plants, men, hills, shining and
        flowing waters,
The skies of day and night--colours, densities, forms--Maybe these are (as
        doubtless they are) only apparitions, and the real something has
        yet to be known;
(How often they dart out of themselves, as if to confound me and mock me!
How often I think neither I know, nor any man knows, aught of them!)
Maybe seeming to me what they are (as doubtless they indeed but seem) as
        from my present point of view--And might prove (as of course they
        would) naught of what they appear, or naught anyhow, from entirely
        changed points of view;
--To me, these, and the like of these, are curiously answered by my lovers,
        my dear friends.
When he whom I love travels with me, or sits a long while holding me by the
        hand,
When the subtle air, the impalpable, the sense that words and reason hold
        not, surround us and pervade us,
Then I am charged with untold and untellable wisdom--I am silent--I require
        nothing further,
I cannot answer the question of appearances, or that of identity beyond the
        grave;
But I walk or sit indifferent--I am satisfied,
He ahold of my hand has completely satisfied me.


_THE FRIEND._


Recorders ages hence!
Come, I will take you down underneath this impassive exterior--I will tell
        you what to say of me;
Publish my name and hang up my picture as that of the tenderest lover,
The friend, the lover's portrait, of whom his friend, his lover, was
        fondest,
Who was not proud of his songs, but of the measureless ocean of love within
        him--and freely poured it forth,
Who often walked lonesome walks, thinking of his dear friends, his lovers,
Who pensive, away from one he loved, often lay sleepless and dissatisfied
        at night,
Who knew too well the sick, sick dread lest the one he loved might secretly
        be indifferent to him,
Whose happiest days were far away, through fields, in woods, on hills, he
        and another, wandering hand in hand, they twain, apart from other
        men,
Who oft, as he sauntered the streets, curved with his arm the shoulder of
        his friend--while the arm of his friend rested upon him also.



_MEETING AGAIN._


When I heard at the close of the day how my name had been received with
        plaudits in the capitol, still it was not a happy night for me that
        followed;
And else, when I caroused, or when my plans were accomplished, still I was
        not happy.
But the day when I rose at dawn from the bed of perfect health, refreshed,
        singing, inhaling the ripe breath of autumn,
When I saw the full moon in the west grow pale and disappear in the morning
        light,
When I wandered alone over the beach, and undressing bathed, laughing with
        the cool waters, and saw the sunrise,
And when I thought how my dear friend, my lover, was on his way coming, O
        then I was happy;
O then each breath tasted sweeter--and all that day my food nourished me
        more--and the beautiful day passed well,
And the next came with equal joy--and with the next, at evening, came my
        friend;
And that night, while all was still, I heard the waters roll slowly
        continually up the shores,
I heard the hissing rustle of the liquid and sands, as directed to me,
        whispering, to congratulate me;
For the one I love most lay sleeping by me under the same cover in the cool
        night,
In the stillness, in the autumn moonbeams, his face was inclined toward me,
And his arm lay lightly around my breast--and that night I was happy.



_A DREAM._


Of him I love day and night, I dreamed I heard he was dead;
And I dreamed I went where they had buried him I love--but he was not in
        that place;
And I dreamed I wandered, searching among burial-places, to find him;
And I found that every place was a burial-place;
The houses full of life were equally full of death, (this house is now;)
The streets, the shipping, the places of amusement, the Chicago, Boston,
Philadelphia, the Mannahatta, were as full of the dead as of the living,
And fuller, O vastly fuller, of the dead than of the living.
--And what I dreamed I will henceforth tell to every person and age,
And I stand henceforth bound to what I dreamed;
And now I am willing to disregard burial-places, and dispense with them;
And if the memorials of the dead were put up indifferently everywhere, even
        in the room where I eat or sleep, I should be satisfied;
And if the corpse of any one I love, or if my own corpse, be duly rendered
        to powder, and poured in the sea, I shall be satisfied;
Or if it be distributed to the winds, I shall be satisfied.



_PARTING FRIENDS._


What think you I take my pen in hand to record?
The battle-ship, perfect-modelled, majestic, that I saw pass the offing to-
        day under full sail?
The splendours of the past day? Or the splendour of the night that envelops
        me?
Or the vaunted glory and growth of the great city spread around me?--No;
But I record of two simple men I saw to-day, on the pier, in the midst of
        the crowd, parting the parting of dear friends;
The one to remain hung on the other's neck, and passionately kissed him,
While the one to depart tightly pressed the one to remain in his arms.



_TO A STRANGER._


Passing stranger! you do not know how longingly I look upon you;
You must be he I was seeking, or she I was seeking (it comes to me, as of a
        dream).
I have somewhere surely lived a life of joy with you.
All is recalled as we flit by each other, fluid, affectionate, chaste,
        matured;
You grew up with me, were a boy with me, or a girl with me;
I ate with you, and slept with you--your body has become not yours only,
        nor left my body mine only;
You give me the pleasure of your eyes, face, flesh, as we pass--you take of
        my beard, breast, hands in return;
I am not to speak to you--I am to think of you when I sit alone, or wake at
        night alone;
I am to wait--I do not doubt I am to meet you again;
I am to see to it that I do not lose you.



_OTHER LANDS._


This moment yearning and thoughtful, sitting alone,
It seems to me there are other men in other lands, yearning and thoughtful;
It seems to me I can look over and behold them in Prussia, Italy, France,
        Spain--or far, far away, in China, or in Russia or India--talking
        other dialects;
And it seems to me, if I could know those men, I should become attached to
        them, as I do to men in my own lands.
O I know we should be brethren and lovers;
I know I should be happy with them.



_ENVY._

When I peruse the conquered fame of heroes, and the victories of mighty
        generals, I do not envy the generals,
Nor the President in his Presidency, nor the rich in his great house.

But when I read of the brotherhood of lovers, how it was with them;
How through life, through dangers, odium, unchanging, long and long,
Through youth, and through middle and old age, how unfaltering, how
        affectionate and faithful they were,
Then I am pensive--I hastily put down the book, and walk away, filled with
the bitterest envy.



_THE CITY OF FRIENDS._


I dreamed in a dream I saw a city invincible to the attacks of the whole of
        the rest of the earth;
I dreamed that it was the new City of Friends;
Nothing was greater there than the quality of robust love--it led the rest;
It was seen every hour in the actions of the men of that city,
And in all their looks and words.



_OUT OF THE CROWD._